Write Automate section (#35)
directus/docs: content/7.automate/3.data-chain.md

---

> description: Learn how to work with a Flow's data chain in Directus Automate.

Reviewer: Can you work on this to explain, in one line, what the data chain is?

---

# Data Chain

In order for a Flow's operations to track and access the same data, each Flow creates its own
data chain. Every operation has access to this data chain and each operation appends some value onto

> this object after it runs. This means you can dynamically access data from a previous operation in the current operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this object after it runs. This means you can dynamically access data from a previous operation or trigger in the current operation
```

The following is an example of a data chain.

```json
{
	"$trigger": {
		// Contains data generated by the Flow's trigger.
		// This could include headers, access tokens, payloads, etc.
		// Every data chain has a $trigger key.
	},
	"$accountability": {
		// Provides details on who/what started the Flow.
		// This could include user's id, role, ip address, etc...
		// Every data chain has an $accountability key.
	},
	"$env": {
		// Environment variables allowed in `FLOWS_ENV_ALLOW_LIST`.
		// This could include PUBLIC_URL, PORT, etc...
		// Every data chain has an $env key.
	},
	"$last": {
		// The value appended under $last changes after each operation.
		// It stores data of the last operation that executed in the Flow.
		// That way, you don't have to remember the previous operation's unique keyname.
		// It's a handy little convenience tool!
		// Every data chain has a $last key.
	},
	"operationKey1": "A value", // The data (if any) generated by the first operation.
	"operationKey2": {
		"nestedKey": ["nested val", "nested val 2"] // It will be common to have nested JSON data.
	},
	"operationKey3": null // A null value is appended if no data generated.
}

> ```

Reviewer: Could you change this from inline comments to empty objects and then an explainer underneath?

Real-life examples of data chains and their data structures will vary, based on your Flow's unique configuration.

## Data Chain Variables

While [configuring your operations](/automate/operations), you can use keys from the data chain as variables to
access data. The syntax to do so is as follows:

```json
"{{ $accountability }}"
```

This will get the data nested under the `$accountability` key, producing something like this, for example:

```json
{
	"user": "4b11492d-631d-4b8a-bca7-2beasdfadf58b",
	"role": "12c79228-5361-4905-929b-d69d3w46trs6b",
	"admin": true,
	"app": true,
	"ip": "127.0.0.1",
	"userAgent": "Amazon CloudFront"
}
```

> You can mix your own hard-coded JSON alongside variables. You can also use dot-notation and array indexing to retrieve sub-nested values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can mix your own hardcoded JSON alongside variables. You can also use dot notation and array indexing to retrieve nested values:
```
